Add July newsletter (#114)
readthedocs/blog: newsletter-july-2021.rst

.. post:: July 8, 2021
   :tags: newsletter, python
   :author: Juan Luis
   :location: MAD

.. meta::
   :description lang=en:
      Company updates and new features from last month,
      current focus, and upcoming features from July.

Read the Docs newsletter - July 2021
====================================

Welcome to a new edition of our monthly newsletter, where we
openly share the most relevant updates around Read the Docs,
offer a summary of new features we shipped
during the previous month,
and share what we'll be focusing on in the near future.

Company highlights
------------------

- Eric_ presented the history of the company at the Upstream 2021 conference
  along with ideas for open source sustainability.
  You can read more about it in :doc:`our recent blog post </behind-the-scenes-2021-1>`.
- We revamped our `sustainability page <https://readthedocs.org/sustainability/>`_
  to clarify the ways in which you or your project can go ad-free.
- The first two parts of the Sphinx tutorial we are writing
  in the context of the :doc:`CZI grant </czi-grant-announcement>`
  were merged to the development branch,

>   and will be publicly available soon.

Reviewer: .. in the official Sphinx's documentation; or something like that looks good to me.

Author: Good catch, will clarify

- We finalized the design of our upcoming
  `Embed API v3 <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/development/design/embed-api.html>`_,

>   which will allow sites outside Read the Docs to embed our documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  which will allow embedding sites hosted outside Read the Docs in your documentation.
```

Author: I think I understood this backwards, asked for clarification online

Author: Turns out that there will be a plethora of new use cases :) Will write something more generic

- One extra person will join our team as Frontend Developer.
  More details coming soon!

New features
------------

- We added a new functionality to rebuild a specific PR build.
  A small user experience improvement that we hope is useful to many of our users
  (see image below).
- We added a JSON schema of our configuration file to
  `JSON Schema Store <https://www.schemastore.org/json/>`_.
  If your editor has support for JSON schema,

>   it will now give you autocompletion and highlight for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  it will now give you autocompletion and linting for
```

Don't know what other term to use, but isn't highlight p:

Author: Thanks! Will try to rephrase it

Author: "linting" is just fine :)

  along with our external contributor `Aaron Carlisle`_,
  finishing up the financial summary of 2020,
  and onboarding our new Frontend hire.
- Eric_ will continue working on our sales process
  and doing pull request reviews,
  and will propose some pricing changes
  in our commercial site.
  In addition, he will push forward the proposal to add audit tracking
  along with Manuel_.
- `Juan Luis`_ is now collaborating more closely with the Sphinx team
  and will submit the third part of our beginners tutorial.
  In addition, he will lead a documentation sprint at SciPy,
  and start working on an introduction tutorial for Read the Docs.
- Manuel_ has already started with the implementation of our Embed API v3
  and will continue working on it for the coming weeks,
  apart from improving our data backups
  and implementing the first pieces of our audit tracking.
- Santos_ will keep on working with the refactoring of our codebases
  so our commercial and community sites are easier to maintain,
  and address some redirection issues we have observed for certain users.
  He will also write a new guide about how to use unsupported VCS platforms
  on Read the Docs.

> .. _Aaron: https://github.com/blendify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _Aaron Carlisle: https://github.com/blendify
```

Author: Thanks!

.. post:: July 8, 2021
   :tags: newsletter, python
   :author: Juan Luis
   :location: MAD

.. meta::
   :description lang=en:
      Company updates and new features from last month,

>       current focus, and upcoming features from July.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      current focus, and upcoming features in July.
```

Read the Docs newsletter - July 2021
====================================

Welcome to a new edition of our monthly newsletter, where we

> openly share the most relevant updates around Read the Docs,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
share the most relevant updates around Read the Docs,
```

  `our .readthedocs.yml <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config-file/v2.html>`_.

.. figure:: /img/rebuild.png
   :align: center
   :width: 80%
   :alt: Link to rebuild a specific build

   Link to rebuild a specific build

Thanks to our external contributors `@mongolsteppe`_, `Florian Bruhin`_,
`Seth Falco`_, `Rémi Verschelde`_, `Chris Holdgraf`_, and `Maksudul Haque`_.

You can always see the latest changes to our platforms in our `Read the Docs
Changelog <https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/changelog.html>`_.

.. _@mongolsteppe: https://github.com/mongolsteppe
.. _Florian Bruhin: https://github.com/The-Compiler
.. _Seth Falco: https://github.com/SethFalco
.. _Rémi Verschelde: https://github.com/akien-mga
.. _Chris Holdgraf: https://github.com/choldgraf
.. _Maksudul Haque: https://github.com/saadmk11

Upcoming features
-----------------

- Anthony_ will focus on getting our Sphinx theme to support Sphinx 4.0
  along with our external contributor `Aaron Carlisle`_,
  finishing up the financial summary of 2020,
  and onboarding our new Frontend hire.
- Eric_ will continue working on our sales process
  and doing pull request reviews,

>   and will propose some pricing changes
>   in our commercial site.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  along with managing other ongoing projects. 
```

  In addition, he will push forward the proposal to add audit tracking
  along with Manuel_.
- `Juan Luis`_ is now collaborating more closely with the Sphinx team
  and will submit the third part of our beginners tutorial.
  In addition, he will lead a documentation sprint at SciPy,

>   and start working on an introduction tutorial for Read the Docs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  and start working on an introductory tutorial for Read the Docs.
```

- Manuel_ has already started with the implementation of our Embed API v3
  and will continue working on it for the coming weeks,
  apart from improving our data backups
  and implementing the first pieces of our audit tracking.

> - Santos_ will keep on working with the refactoring of our codebases
>   so our commercial and community sites are easier to maintain,
>   and address some redirection issues we have observed for certain users.
>   He will also write a new guide about how to use unsupported VCS platforms
>   on Read the Docs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Santos_ will keep on working with the refactoring of our codebases
  so our commercial and community sites are easier to maintain.
  He will also write a new guide about how to use unsupported VCS platforms
  on Read the Docs.
```
